.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH ddcui 1 "13 June 2020"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"

.SH NAME
ddcui \- GUI for ddcutil
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBddcui\fP [\fIoptions\fP]


.\" ALT USING .SY .OP
.\" .SY
.\" .OP \-abcde
.\" .OP \-b busno
.\" .OP \-d|--display dispno
.\" command command-arguments
.\" .YS


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBddcui\fP provides a graphical user interface to a monitor's Virtual Control Panel (VCP).
It uses the DDC/CI protocol on an I2C bus connected to the monitor. 
Normally, the video driver for the monitor exposes one or more I2C buses as devices named /dev/i2c-n.

Virtual Control Panel features are defined in the Monitor Control Command Set (MCCS). 
Monitors implement some subset of these features.
Each feature is identified using a single byte.  For example, feature x10 is the brightness control. 

.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics, 
.\" respectively.


.\" .B ddcutil
.\" .I command 
.\" .R [
.\" .I command-arguments
.\" .R ] [
.\" .I options
.\" .R ]


.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.SS Options that change initial settings for the \fIFeature Selection\fP dialog:
.PP
.TQ
.BI "--feature-set " "name" 
Initial feature set to show.
The most important are \fIMCCS\fP - all features defined in MCCS,
\fIMANUFACTURER\fP - features in the manufacturer reserved range xe0..xff,
\fICOLOR\fP - color related features.  For a complete list, use 
the \fB--help\fP option.
Unless \fB--custom-feature-set\fP is specified, the default is \fIMCCS\fP.

.TQ
.BI "--custom-feature-set " "(feature code..)"
Explicitly specify the features to be shown.
Features in the feature code list are specified as 2 byte hex numbers, with or without 
leading "x" or trailing "h".  To specify more than one feature, separate the feature codes
by commas or blanks, and enclose the entire list in quotation marks.  For example:
.EX
--custom-feature-set "10 x12 14h"
.EE

.TQ
.B "--only-capabilities"
Restrict features to those in the capabilities string.
Applies when the feature set is \fIMCCS\fP, \fICOLOR\fP, or \fIMANUFACTURER\fP.

.TQ
.B "--all-capabilities"
Always include features found in the capabilities string.
Applies when the feature set is \fIMCCS\fP.

.TQ
.B "--show-unsupported"
Display  unsupported features in the feature set.  Normally unsupported features are not shown.

.PP
.SS Option that changes initial settings for the \fINC Values Source\fP dialog.

.TQ
.BI "--nc-values-source " "MCCS|CAPABILITIES|BOTH"
Source of values shown in the drop down menu for simple Non-Continuous features.

.SS Option for initial display selection:
.PP
.TQ
.BI "--model "    "model-name"
Model name as specified in the monitor's EDID and shown on the toolbar.

.SS
Miscellaneous options:

.TQ
.B "--styles"
List available Qt styles

.TQ
.BI "--style " "style-name"
Select the Qt style to use

.TQ
.B "--version, -v"
Report version information

.TQ
.B "--help"
Get command line help.

.PP
.SS
Options that are passed to the \fBddcutil\fP shared library. 
These correspond to \fBddcutil\fP command line options of the same name. 

.TQ
.BI "--sleep-multiplier " "floating point number"
Multiplication factor applied to the length of DDC mandated waits.

.TQ
.BI "--maxtries " "\(dqmax-read-tries, max-write-read-tries, max-multi-part-tries\(dq"
Adjust the number of retries

.TQ
.B "--ddc"
Report DDC protocol and data errors to the terminal.

.TQ
.B "--udf | --noudf"
Enable User Defined Features.  Default is \fB--noudf\fP

.TQ
.BI "--trace " "trace-group-name"
Trace all functions in a trace group.
May be specified more than once.

.TQ
.BI "--trcfile " "simple-file-name"
Trace all traceable functions in a file.
May be specified more than once.

.TQ
.BI "--trcfunc " "function name"
Trace a single function.
May be specified more than once.

.TQ
.B "--timestamp | --ts"
Prefix trace messages with timestamp

.TQ
.B "--thread-id | --tid"
Prefix trace messages with thread id


.SH STATUS CODES 

Normally returns 0, returns 1 if failure.

Using the \fB--help\fP option is regarded as success. 


.SH SEE_ALSO
ddcutil(1)
.PP
The project homepage: 
.UR http://www.ddcutil.com
.UE
.TQ
General \fBddcui\fP documentation:
.UR http://www.ddcutil.com/ddcui_main
.UE
.TQ
For detailed documentation of the command line options: 
.UR http:\\www.ddcutil.com/ddcui_options
.UE 


.SH AUTHOR
Sanford Rockowitz (rockowitz at minsoft dot com)
.br
Copyright 2019\-2020 Sanford Rockowitz


